Hello everyone.
Welcome to another lesson.
So in this lesson we're going to talk about the anatomy of a WordPress theme.
We all understand how a WordPress theme is made up.
What files directories and what are the rules that you have to follow.
Despite the fact that this lesson has a lot of theory I highly recommend that you follow it until the
end of the day.
It's very important.
But before you continue on you must already have WordPress installed.
If you're not ready yet please take a look at the previous lesson OK.
But of course I will be using Sublime Text 3 as my primary ID.
My integrated development environment.
But of course you can use whatever ID you prefer.
The one which you feel most at ease to begin this lesson will be showing you how the directory structure
of the word breastfeeds looks like.
You remember that we installed WordPress in a folder called W.P..
So if you follow that structure we have three folders at the root of the installation.
This one here.
WPA admin W.P. content and WP includes.
We also have several other files that are also part of the Wordpress environment.
But forget about it now because we were talking about them later on this course.
So where are all of the Wordpress themes.
Well themes can be found inside the WP content folder and if you open that folder there is another one
called themes inside the content.
We also have the plugins folder and other important WordPress folders.
Well lets stick with the themes for the for now.
If you open this folder will see that WordPress already comes with at least 3 themes installed and they
are always related to you in which they were produced and the last one here will be the 20:17 theme
because I am creating discourse in 2017.
Well go ahead and open up this folder inside look there is a new folder structure.
We have a folder for the CSA files and this one here can be used for including our personal functions.
If you want to do that a folder for files in javascript format and other files here as well and I think
you may be wondering.
But Marcello there are so many files and so many folders.
Why did you create all of these files and all of these folders if I want a custom WordPress Fien.
Well not exactly.
In fact in theory it WordPress film that really works only need two files the not BHB and the style
that CSSA file would come down.
We are better understand how these files work during our course are just starting.
But just to be clear since the beginning index that BHB is the entry point of our theme and style that
VSS is responsible for telling WordPress what is the name of the thing.
The author of the Thien the description of the theme but will see all that in the next lessons OK.
Of course if you view the theme with just these two files it would be too humble and we don't want that.
Let's imagine that you want the content of a contact page which shows up when you click on the menu
link corresponding to it.
We want that page to be different from the content of your home page.
For example if your film has only thing next batch file your contact page will be identical to the home
page.
Surely that's not what we want is it.
Of course not.
That's why we have these other files here.
Each one of them we are specialized in a part of the wordpress site.
For example the single dot BHP file will help us create a single view of a single post.
On the other hand the page speech file is used to open a static page which is different from a post
which WordPress understands as having say a more dynamic content than a static page.
And there are yet several other files that will get to know during the course.
Another important file is the one called screenshot that P and G.
This file is just a cropped image of everything that represents the theme.
When we are within the admin area so hearing the admin area if I head over to appearance and click on
themes we see that for everything there is an image and those images come from a file called screenshot
that DNG OK.
One interesting thing that you notice is that film files such as index starts page B already serve as
study material to us you can better understand how a film works if you just open them up and begin reading
their documentation.
For example here we have the index database file which is part of the 20:17 seen in this file itself.
You already have a description of what it is as you see here.
It says that it is the main thing file.
The main thing file is the entry point of a WordPress site.
It is one of the files required for you to be the theme.
The other one being the style that says as I explained to you previously.
For each of the native word breastfeeds files you have this kind of documentation.
In fact it's a good practice if you start creating your files this way offering all of the documentation
of your scene as you created.
However we will not do that because time is a little short for this course as we're having to use another
file.
For example page Dutch BHB the documentation here says that it is the template for displaying pages
with static content and the single that speech is I think it's used to show all the single posts and
also attachments of our site.
Well what happens when you visit for example a post or a static WordPress page but a way if you don't
know what is a static page.
A good example of what this page looks like would be the default example page of the Wordpress installation
just go ahead and open it and you'll see what I mean.
What happens when we visit one of these contents.
Is that a mechanism that we're frescos this thing hierarchy comes into action.
So explain how this works.
Am going to use this image here that was created by the WB turd's Plus website.
It explains very well in my view how this mechanism works.
In addition it also explains to us how the anatomy of a WordPress theme is this is say an anatomical
model of Wordpress Feme look in this anatomical model and also hierarchical.
The main part will always be adding the X that page file.
As I explained earlier it is the main thing file.
It will always be used to show the content of a page in situations where we don't need any specific
template or when WordPress doesn't know which page templates use this file is what we call a fallback.
Now if at some point we need to present a page with a specific look to the site visitor we will no longer
use the index that speech template at that point we are going to go down a bit in the hierarchy and
use another page template which is inside another file.
Give given example.
And that's one thing that happens all the time within WordPress say a visitor enters your site through
a poorly formatted link.
In these situations most sites show a page known as a full or full page to the visitor which is a classic
error page.
If your film has a file called Full of all that BHB you can create a totally different look for that
file.
But if your film doesn't have a file called for or for that page be well pressed to obey the things
hierarchy and show the contents of the index that page files that I mean WordPress you'll be using the
fallback file instead of a full of four page file.
You can apply the same reasoning model to other files for example the single file is the file for viewing
Singo posts.
If a team has this file and I always recommend that you have one every time you click a link in a post
you view the page according to the design of the single that page be filed following all the HMO tags
and Page functions inside that file.
Considering this image as the anatomical template of the word WordPress thing you could say that these
files about which I just spoke here in the central part of the page.
OK.
They will be part of what they call the Word Press.
And this same plate has its own loop inside it.
But we'll be explaining it better in other classes in addition to the loop region which is here in the
middle of the bage for this drawing.
But you can move it any other area of the site according to your design.
We have choose structures that repeat on all pages and are generated by two files.
Up here the content that comes from the header that page file and here below the content of the footer
that page file option only our site can also have what is called a sidebar.
And that's what makes the word breastfeed beautiful.
It can be very dynamic with all these possibilities.
There is.
You can even create a theme using just the next dot page profile but WordPress gives you all the tools
to make this theme much richer much better.
We can see all of this in the theme lay out that we will be viewing in the scores here from the top
where we see this little red bar up to the menu area.
We have our head or the contents of this entire area it's come in from the header data file.
The dynamic part in which we will have the template files and then loops will extend from this slide
here to the map.
So we're going to include all of the dynamic content of the website the content that is not static in
that big area here.
And to complete the design we'll have our footer at the end whose content will come from a template
part called footer that PH BE also for some pages.
We have a sidebar in our case for the home page.
The sidebar will be positioned on the left side but not now you'll see all of that in our next lesson.
OK.
I promise you that in the next lesson we will stop fury and we will begin practicing a lot.
Until then and now we'll catch you guys on my next video.